---
url: /about/
title: About Exploring Data
description: Exploring Data is about mining and visualizing public data with open source tools.
created: 2012-09-07 18:39:09
template: page.html
noindex: 1
---
Exploring Data is about mining and visualizing public data with open source tools created by Ramiro Gómez. The topics covered in the [visualizations](/vis/), [maps](/tags/map/) and [stories](/tags/data-story/) include human development, climate change,
programming, software, social networks and football.

To stay informed about new publications and updates you can
[subscribe to the RSS feed](https://exploring-data.com/rss.xml)
or follow me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/yaph). Also see what [other people have said](/what-others-say/) about Exploring Data.

## Disclaimer

The information contained in this website is for general information purposes only. The information is provided by exploring-data.com and while we endeavor to keep the information up to date and correct, we make no representations or warranties of any kind, express or implied, about the completeness, accuracy, reliability, suitability or availability with respect to the website or the information, products, services, or related graphics contained on the website for any purpose. Any reliance you place on such information is therefore strictly at your own risk.

In no event will we be liable for any loss or damage including without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any loss or damage whatsoever arising from loss of data or profits arising out of, or in connection with, the use of this website.

Through this website you are able to link to other websites which are not under the control of exploring-data.com. We have no control over the nature, content and availability of those sites. The inclusion of any links does not necessarily imply a recommendation or endorse the views expressed within them.

Every effort is made to keep the website up and running smoothly. However, exploring-data.com takes no responsibility for, and will not be liable for, the website being temporarily unavailable due to technical issues beyond our control.

## Disclosure

Ramiro Gómez is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. Amazon and the Amazon logo are trademarks of Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates.

Moreover, external links to other online stores like Zazzle on this website may contain affiliate IDs, which means that I earn a commission if you make a purchase using these links. This allows me to offer hopefully valuable content for free while keeping this website sustainable.

## Google Analytics

This website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. ("Google"). Google Analytics uses "cookies", which are text files placed on your computer to help the website analyse how visitors use the site. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website (including your IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States . Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity for website operators and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage. Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google's behalf. Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google. You may refuse the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser, however please note that if you do this you may not be able to use the full functionality of this website. By using this website, you consent to the processing of data about you by Google in the manner and for the purposes set out above.

## Technologies

This Web site is built using several fine open source software tools and
libraries for:

### Visualizations

* [D3.js](https://d3js.org/)
* [Gephi](https://gephi.org/)
* [matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/)
* [NetworkX](https://networkx.github.io/)
* [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/)
* [sigma.js](https://sigmajs.org/)

### Site Building

* [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/)
* [jQuery](https://jquery.com/)
* [Logya](https://ramiro.org/logya/)

## Imprint

Ramiro Gómez<br>
Schererstr. 12a<br>
D-13347 Berlin<br>
Germany

Fon: &#x2b;49&#x2d;30&#x2d;46065288<br>
E-Mail: www&#x40;ramiro&#x2e;org